# candid-satcam
## Background: (Earth Observation) Satellites are Cool
The Candid Satcam project is a light-hearted celebration of the power of Earth Observation satellites. As a fan of the landsat missions (and Sentinel-2 and Planet and Maxxar, or [whatever they're calling themselves now](https://spacenews.com/maxar-retires-its-name-rebrands-as-vantor-and-lanteris/), I wanted to write a light-hearted practice python program that takes a user's address as input and produces a silly output statement about whether the Landsat 9 satellite is passing over that address today and whether the satellite can "see" you (assuming a visibility cutoff of 40% cloud cover.)
## Important Disclaimer
The Landsat mission is amazing, BUT its ground sampling distance means that it produces imagery on a 30x30 m per pixel resolution. This is much to coarse for Landsat imagery to resolve indidual people, so even if you put on an outfit and wave, Landsat 9 will not actually see you. Also, please don't really sacrifice your GNSS devices to the Weather Gods, whether they're Trimbles or not. Finally, this is a for fun project and while I've had access to some amazing pre-exisiting services (more on that below), please do not rely on anything that you find in Candid Satcam if you need reliable cloudiness predictions, or highly accurate or precise geocoding services. It's a silly app designed to tell you when the descending Landsat is next coming to town. Finally, please note that Landsat orbital paths occasionally shift slightly in accordance with the Long Term Acquisition Plan and imaging priorities. I'll try to keep this program updated with them, but no promises.
## Pre-exisiting Packages that Make This All Work
Candid Satcam currently uses [Nominatim's](https://nominatim.org/) amazing Open Street Map-based geocoding service to convert addresses into decimal degrees. Part of the code (the part that gets today's cloud cover from a GFS model) has been generously provided by Brian Blaylock's [Herbie python package](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4567540). Currently the code uses [Shapely](https://shapely.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) to create a shapefile of the point input by a user, and [Geopandas](https://geopandas.org/en/stable/index.html) dataframe methods to determine which landsat paths and rows a user's input address falls into. Finally, this project's base inspiration comes from the amazing Landsat 9 mission, which you can learn more about [here](https://www.usgs.gov/landsat-missions/landsat-9).
## Next Steps and Stretch Goals
Apart from ongoing maintenance, I would love to add a branch that does its intersections and geocoding in arcpy, for ESRI environment peeps. There may be a GUI input-output interface in Candid Satcam's future, and down the line, it would be fun to add support for additional orbital paths/satellite missions such as Sentinel-2. That said, this is a labor of love, and thus not always my highest priority. 
#### Credits
Aside from the packages mentioned above, everything was written by me (A Sappington) in January 2026, so all mistakes are mine!
